index.md, before:

---
layout: home
title: Home
description: Complete guide for ASI:Chain blockchain network
hero:
  name: "ASI:Chain"
  text: "DevNet Documentation"
  tagline: "Build, test, and deploy on the ASI:Chain development network"
  image:
    alt: ASI:Chain
  actions:
    - theme: brand
      text: Get Started
      link: /quick-start/join-validator/
    - theme: alt
      text: View on GitHub
      link: https://github.com/asi-alliance/asi-chain
    - theme: sponsor
      text: Get DevNet Tokens
      link: /quick-start/get-asi/

features:
  - title: Quick Start
    details: Join DevNet as a validator or get test tokens to start building
    link: /quick-start/join-validator/
  
  - title: DevNet Structure
    details: Learn about network architecture, components, and how they work together
    link: /shard-nodes/devnet-structure/
  
  - title: ASI Wallet
    details: Manage accounts, deploy contracts, and interact with the blockchain
    link: /wallet/usage/
  
  - title: Block Explorer
    details: Monitor network activity, search transactions, and view statistics
    link: /explorer/usage/
  
  - title: Get Test Tokens
    details: Request DevNet ASI tokens from the faucet for testing
    link: /quick-start/get-asi/
  
  - title: Useful Links
    details: Quick access to all network endpoints, tools, and resources
    link: /general/useful-links/
  
  - title: Node Setup
    details: Configure and run validator or observer nodes
    link: /shard-nodes/validator-image/
  
  - title: FAQ
    details: Find answers to common questions about ASI:Chain DevNet
    link: /faq/
---

## Welcome to ASI:Chain DevNet

ASI:Chain is a blockchain network built for the ASI Alliance ecosystem, powered by F1R3FLY technology. This documentation helps you get started with DevNet - our development and testing environment.

### Current Network Status

<div class="tip custom-block" style="padding-top: 8px">

**DevNet is Live**

- **Bootstrap Node:** `rnode://e5e6faf012f36a30176d459ddc0db81435f6f1dc@54.152.57.201?protocol=40400&discovery=40404`
- **Block Explorer:** [explorer.dev.asichain.io](https://explorer.dev.asichain.io)
- **Wallet:** [wallet.dev.asichain.io](https://wallet.dev.asichain.io)
- **Faucet:** [faucet.dev.asichain.io](https://faucet.dev.asichain.io)
- **Configuration:** 1 Bootstrap + 3 Validators + 1 Observer

</div>

### Choose Your Path

![ASI:Chain Workflows](/images/asi-chain-workflows.png)

<div class="vp-feature-grid">

**Developers**
- [Get test tokens](/quick-start/get-asi/) from the faucet
- Use the [Wallet](https://wallet.dev.asichain.io) to deploy contracts
- Read the [DevNet structure guide](/shard-nodes/devnet-structure/)

**Validators**
- Follow the [validator setup guide](/quick-start/join-validator/)
- Learn about [validator node image](/shard-nodes/validator-image/)
- Monitor your node performance

**Users**
- Create an account in the [Wallet](https://wallet.dev.asichain.io)
- [Request tokens](/quick-start/get-asi/) to start transacting
- Explore the network via [Block Explorer](https://explorer.dev.asichain.io)

</div>

### Key Resources

- **Wallet:** [wallet.dev.asichain.io](https://wallet.dev.asichain.io) - Manage accounts and deploy contracts
- **Block Explorer:** [explorer.dev.asichain.io](https://explorer.dev.asichain.io) - Monitor blockchain activity
- **Faucet:** [faucet.dev.asichain.io](https://faucet.dev.asichain.io) - Get test tokens
- **GitHub:** [asi-alliance/asi-chain](https://github.com/asi-alliance/asi-chain) - Source code
- **Rust Client:** [singnet/rust-client](https://github.com/singnet/rust-client) - CLI tool

### Documentation Sections

Explore our comprehensive documentation:

**General**
- [Overview](/general/overview/) - Understand ASI:Chain ecosystem
- [Useful Links](/general/useful-links/) - All endpoints and resources

**Quick Start**
- [Join as Validator](/quick-start/join-validator/) - Become a validator
- [Join as Observer](/quick-start/join-observer/) - Run an observer
- [Get DevNet Tokens](/quick-start/get-asi/) - Request test tokens

**Shard & Nodes**
- [DevNet Structure](/shard-nodes/devnet-structure/) - Network architecture
- [Validator Node Image](/shard-nodes/validator-image/) - Validator setup
- [Observer Node Image](/shard-nodes/observer-image/) - Observer setup
- [Own Shard Setup](/shard-nodes/own-shard/) - Private shard

**Tools**
- [Wallet Usage](/wallet/usage/) - Complete wallet guide
- [Custom Network](/wallet/custom-network/) - Connect to custom networks
- [Explorer Usage](/explorer/usage/) - Block explorer guide
- [Faucet Usage](/faucet/usage/) - Get test tokens

**Help**
- [FAQ](/faq/) - Frequently asked questions
- [Troubleshooting](/quick-start/troubleshooting/) - Common issues and solutions

### What is DevNet?

DevNet is ASI:Chain's development network where:
- **Test tokens have no real value** - Experiment freely
- **Anyone can join** - Become a validator or just use the network
- **Smart contracts** - Deploy and test Rholang contracts
- **Live environment** - Full blockchain functionality for testing

### Important Notes

**Security Reminders:**
- DevNet tokens have **NO real value**
- Keep private keys secure - they cannot be recovered if lost
- **Do not** use DevNet keys on mainnet (when available)
- Always verify you're on official sites (check URLs)

**Official Sites:**
- Wallet: [`wallet.dev.asichain.io`](https://wallet.dev.asichain.io)
- Explorer: [`explorer.dev.asichain.io`](https://explorer.dev.asichain.io)
- Faucet: [`faucet.dev.asichain.io`](https://faucet.dev.asichain.io)
- Docs: Current site you're on

### Getting Started in 3 Steps

1. **Create a Wallet**
   - Visit [wallet.dev.asichain.io](https://wallet.dev.asichain.io)
   - Create an account and save your keys

2. **Get Test Tokens**
   - Go to [faucet.dev.asichain.io](https://faucet.dev.asichain.io)
   - Request tokens using your address

3. **Start Building**
   - Deploy smart contracts
   - Transfer tokens
   - Explore the network

### Support

Need help?
- **Documentation:** Browse this site using the navigation
- **FAQ:** Check the [FAQ section](/faq/) for common questions
- **GitHub:** Report issues at [asi-alliance/asi-chain](https://github.com/asi-alliance/asi-chain)
- **Community:** Connect with other developers

### Learn More

**Key Concepts:**
- [DevNet Structure](/shard-nodes/devnet-structure/) - How the network is organized
- [Validator Guide](/quick-start/join-validator/) - Run your own validator
- [Smart Contracts](/wallet/usage/) - Deploy with the wallet IDE

**Technical Details:**
- [Network Configuration](/shard-nodes/devnet-structure/) - Ports, IPs, topology
- [Node Images](/shard-nodes/validator-image/) - Docker setup and config
- [API Access](/general/useful-links/) - Endpoints and integration

---

<div class="tip custom-block">

**Ready to start?** [Get test tokens](/quick-start/get-asi/) or [join as a validator](/quick-start/join-validator/).

</div>

Commit message:

docs: add technical architecture diagrams with mermaid support
- Add component diagrams for Wallet, Explorer, and ASI Node

index.md, after:

---
layout: home
title: Home
description: Complete guide for ASI:Chain blockchain network
hero:
  name: "ASI:Chain"
  text: "DevNet Documentation"
  tagline: "Build, test, and deploy on the ASI:Chain development network"
  image:
    alt: ASI:Chain
  actions:
    - theme: brand
      text: Get Started
      link: /quick-start/join-validator/
    - theme: alt
      text: View on GitHub
      link: https://github.com/asi-alliance/asi-chain
    - theme: sponsor
      text: Get DevNet Tokens
      link: /quick-start/get-asi/

features:
  - title: Quick Start
    details: Join DevNet as a validator or get test tokens to start building
    link: /quick-start/join-validator/
  
  - title: DevNet Structure
    details: Learn about network architecture, components, and how they work together
    link: /shard-nodes/devnet-structure/
  
  - title: ASI Wallet
    details: Manage accounts, deploy contracts, and interact with the blockchain
    link: /wallet/usage/
  
  - title: Block Explorer
    details: Monitor network activity, search transactions, and view statistics
    link: /explorer/usage/
  
  - title: Get Test Tokens
    details: Request DevNet ASI tokens from the faucet for testing
    link: /quick-start/get-asi/
  
  - title: Useful Links
    details: Quick access to all network endpoints, tools, and resources
    link: /general/useful-links/
  
  - title: Node Setup
    details: Configure and run validator or observer nodes
    link: /shard-nodes/validator-image/
  
  - title: Architecture
    details: Technical diagrams for components, data flow, and network topology
    link: /architecture/
  
  - title: FAQ
    details: Find answers to common questions about ASI:Chain DevNet
    link: /faq/
---

## Welcome to ASI:Chain DevNet

ASI:Chain is a blockchain network built for the Artificial Superintelligence Alliance ecosystem. This documentation helps you get started with DevNet - our development and testing environment.

### Current Network Status

<div class="tip custom-block" style="padding-top: 8px">

**DevNet is Live**

- **Bootstrap Node:** `rnode://e5e6faf012f36a30176d459ddc0db81435f6f1dc@54.152.57.201?protocol=40400&discovery=40404`
- **Block Explorer:** [explorer.dev.asichain.io](https://explorer.dev.asichain.io)
- **Wallet:** [wallet.dev.asichain.io](https://wallet.dev.asichain.io)
- **Faucet:** [faucet.dev.asichain.io](https://faucet.dev.asichain.io)
- **Configuration:** 1 Bootstrap + 3 Validators + 1 Observer

</div>

### Choose Your Path

![ASI:Chain Workflows](/images/asi-chain-workflows.png)

<div class="vp-feature-grid">

**Developers**
- [Get test tokens](/quick-start/get-asi/) from the faucet
- Use the [Wallet](https://wallet.dev.asichain.io) to deploy contracts
- Read the [DevNet structure guide](/shard-nodes/devnet-structure/)

**Validators**
- Follow the [validator setup guide](/quick-start/join-validator/)
- Learn about [validator node image](/shard-nodes/validator-image/)
- Monitor your node performance

**Users**
- Create an account in the [Wallet](https://wallet.dev.asichain.io)
- [Request tokens](/quick-start/get-asi/) to start transacting
- Explore the network via [Block Explorer](https://explorer.dev.asichain.io)

</div>

### Key Resources

- **Wallet:** [wallet.dev.asichain.io](https://wallet.dev.asichain.io) - Manage accounts and deploy contracts
- **Block Explorer:** [explorer.dev.asichain.io](https://explorer.dev.asichain.io) - Monitor blockchain activity
- **Faucet:** [faucet.dev.asichain.io](https://faucet.dev.asichain.io) - Get test tokens
- **GitHub:** [asi-alliance/asi-chain](https://github.com/asi-alliance/asi-chain) - Source code
- **Rust Client:** [singnet/rust-client](https://github.com/singnet/rust-client) - CLI tool

### Documentation Sections

Explore our comprehensive documentation:

**General**
- [Overview](/general/overview/) - Understand ASI:Chain ecosystem
- [Useful Links](/general/useful-links/) - All endpoints and resources

**Quick Start**
- [Join as Validator](/quick-start/join-validator/) - Become a validator
- [Join as Observer](/quick-start/join-observer/) - Run an observer
- [Get DevNet Tokens](/quick-start/get-asi/) - Request test tokens

**Shard & Nodes**
- [DevNet Structure](/shard-nodes/devnet-structure/) - Network architecture
- [Validator Node Image](/shard-nodes/validator-image/) - Validator setup
- [Observer Node Image](/shard-nodes/observer-image/) - Observer setup
- [Own Shard Setup](/shard-nodes/own-shard/) - Private shard

**Tools**
- [Wallet Usage](/wallet/usage/) - Complete wallet guide
- [Custom Network](/wallet/custom-network/) - Connect to custom networks
- [Explorer Usage](/explorer/usage/) - Block explorer guide
- [Faucet Usage](/faucet/usage/) - Get test tokens

**Architecture**
- [Overview](/architecture/) - Technical diagrams
- [Component Diagrams](/architecture/component-diagrams/) - Wallet, Explorer, Node internals
- [Sequence Diagrams](/architecture/sequence-diagrams/) - Transaction and query flows
- [Network Topology](/architecture/network-topology/) - Infrastructure overview

**Help**
- [FAQ](/faq/) - Frequently asked questions
- [Troubleshooting](/quick-start/troubleshooting/) - Common issues and solutions

### What is DevNet?

DevNet is ASI:Chain's development network where:
- **Test tokens have no real value** - Experiment freely
- **Anyone can join** - Become a validator or just use the network
- **Smart contracts** - Deploy and test Rholang contracts
- **Live environment** - Full blockchain functionality for testing

### Important Notes

**Security Reminders:**
- DevNet tokens have **NO real value**
- Keep private keys secure - they cannot be recovered if lost
- **Do not** use DevNet keys on mainnet (when available)
- Always verify you're on official sites (check URLs)

**Official Sites:**
- Wallet: [`wallet.dev.asichain.io`](https://wallet.dev.asichain.io)
- Explorer: [`explorer.dev.asichain.io`](https://explorer.dev.asichain.io)
- Faucet: [`faucet.dev.asichain.io`](https://faucet.dev.asichain.io)
- Docs: Current site you're on

### Getting Started in 3 Steps

1. **Create a Wallet**
   - Visit [wallet.dev.asichain.io](https://wallet.dev.asichain.io)
   - Create an account and save your keys

2. **Get Test Tokens**
   - Go to [faucet.dev.asichain.io](https://faucet.dev.asichain.io)
   - Request tokens using your address

3. **Start Building**
   - Deploy smart contracts
   - Transfer tokens
   - Explore the network

### Support

Need help?
- **Documentation:** Browse this site using the navigation
- **FAQ:** Check the [FAQ section](/faq/) for common questions
- **GitHub:** Report issues at [asi-alliance/asi-chain](https://github.com/asi-alliance/asi-chain)
- **Community:** Connect with other developers

### Learn More

**Key Concepts:**
- [DevNet Structure](/shard-nodes/devnet-structure/) - How the network is organized
- [Validator Guide](/quick-start/join-validator/) - Run your own validator
- [Smart Contracts](/wallet/usage/) - Deploy with the wallet IDE

**Technical Details:**
- [Architecture](/architecture/) - Component and sequence diagrams
- [Network Configuration](/shard-nodes/devnet-structure/) - Ports, IPs, topology
- [Node Images](/shard-nodes/validator-image/) - Docker setup and config
- [API Access](/general/useful-links/) - Endpoints and integration

---

<div class="tip custom-block">

**Ready to start?** [Get test tokens](/quick-start/get-asi/) or [join as a validator](/quick-start/join-validator/).

</div>
